<h1>Bodybuilding Supplements For Muscle Growth:What Really Works</h1>
<p>Muscle plays vital roles in overall health, allowing the body to move freely, maintain its strength and even prevent injury. To maximize muscle growth and development, a process known as muscle hypertrophy, it&rsquo;s important to maintain a balanced diet and an exercise routine featuring resistance training. Furthermore, certain dietary supplements can help you achieve desired muscle growth results, regardless of whether your ultimate goal is to compete in a bodybuilding competition or simply be stronger and more active in everyday life.</p>
<p>With so many supplements on the market, it can be difficult to know which ones are worth a try&mdash;particularly as it relates to muscular support. Here&rsquo;s a guide to the best supplements for muscle growth, as well as expert-approved tips for gaining (and maintaining) muscle effectively and efficiently.</p>
<h2 data-start="922" data-end="962"><strong data-start="925" data-end="962">👍😦<a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html">CLICK HERE TO BUY NOW FROM OFFICIAL WEBSITE</a>😦👍</strong></h2>
<h2 class="section_heading">Why Nutrition Matters for Muscle Growth</h2>
<div class="section-content wysiwyg-content blue-bullets">
<p>Nutrition is crucial to&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;gaining and maintaining healthy muscle mass&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;gaining and maintaining healthy muscle mass&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/fitness\/how-to-build-muscle\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">gaining and maintaining healthy muscle mass</a></span>. The right nutrients not only fuel your workouts, but also support your body&rsquo;s ability to grow and repair muscle tissue.</p>
<p>&ldquo;Your muscle tissue can only grow if it has the appropriate building blocks,&rdquo; says Nicholas Anastasio, M.D., a board-certified physician specializing in physical medicine and rehabilitation at Orthopedics and Joint Replacement at Mercy in Baltimore. &ldquo;A healthy diet consisting of a broad range of nutrients and appropriate calories can sustain the needs for muscle tissue growth. Supplementation with certain nutrients can also help ensure your body has the right fuel it needs,&rdquo; he says.</p>
<h2 class="section_heading">5 Best Supplements for Muscle Growth, According to Experts</h2>
<div class="section-content wysiwyg-content blue-bullets">
<p>While specific nutritional needs vary from person to person, there are several supplements research suggests can help promote muscle growth and performance. Below are five science-backed, expert-recommended supplements worth considering if your fitness goals prioritize building muscle.</p>
<h3>Whey Protein Powder</h3>
<p><span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;Whey protein powder&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.forbes.com/health/supplements/best-whey-protein-powder/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;Whey protein powder&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/supplements\/best-whey-protein-powder\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">Whey protein powder</a></span>&nbsp;is one of the most popular types of<a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html">&nbsp;</a><span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;protein powder&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}">protein powde<a href="https://www.forbes.com/health/supplements/best-protein-powders/" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;protein powder&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/supplements\/best-protein-powders\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">r</a></span>&nbsp;and comes highly recommended by nutrition experts for muscle growth. It&rsquo;s a complete protein&mdash;meaning it contains all nine essential amino acids&mdash;and many consumers find it to be easily digestible, making it an ideal source of&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;fuel for muscle growth&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;fuel for muscle growth&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/supplements\/best-protein-powder-for-muscle-gain\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">fuel for muscle growth</a></span>, says Dr. Anastasio.</p>
<p>Research supports the use of whey protein to stimulate muscle protein synthesis and reduce muscle protein breakdown, ultimately resulting in a positive increase in muscle mass when consumed in adequate amounts.</p>
<p>&ldquo;The recommendation is to consume 0.36 grams of protein per pound of body weight per day. However, if you&rsquo;re strength training regularly, up to 0.45 grams per pound of body weight per day is recommended,&rdquo; he says. Adding a scoop of whey protein powder to your smoothies or shakes can help you meet your body&rsquo;s daily protein needs for muscle growth.</p>
<h3>Creatine Monohydrate</h3>
<p>Research suggests&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;creatine monohydrate&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;creatine monohydrate&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/supplements\/best-creatine-monohydrate\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">creatine monohydrate</a></span>&nbsp;supplementation can help increase muscle performance and strength in people who perform short-duration, high-intensity resistance exercises.</p>
<p>Although&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;creatine&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;creatine&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/supplements\/what-is-creatine\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">creatine</a></span>&nbsp;is produced naturally by the body in small amounts and can be found in some foods, such as red meat and fish, it&rsquo;s typically only available in low amounts, which is why&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;creatine supplementation&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;creatine supplementation&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/supplements\/best-creatine-supplements\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">creatine supplementation</a></span>&nbsp;is common, explains Dr. Anastasio. Creatine is generally available as a powder that dissolves easily in any drink, such as coffee, juice or water, he adds.</p>
<p>Supplementing with creatine typically begins with a loading phase in which a person consumes a larger amount over a short period of time to saturate the muscles more rapidly. The loading phase is followed by maintenance dosing. Experts recommend supplementing with 0.3 grams of creatine per kilogram of body weight each day of the loading phase, which typically lasts five to seven days, followed by 0.03 grams of creatine per kilogram of body weight each day of the maintenance phase, which can last anywhere from four to 10 weeks.</p>
<section class="sniper-widget-wrapper exclude-eds mp-word-breaker featured-widget " data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;Perelel Triple-Support Protein&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Sniper Product Widget&quot;}">
<div class="widget-inner-wrapper rounded-10px" data-ecom-product="{&quot;itemId&quot;:&quot;396896&quot;,&quot;itemName&quot;:&quot;Perelel Triple-Support Protein&quot;,&quot;itemBrand&quot;:&quot;Impact&quot;,&quot;itemCategory&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;itemCategory2&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;itemCategory3&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;itemCategory4&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;price&quot;:0,&quot;quantity&quot;:1,&quot;affiliation&quot;:&quot;Impact&quot;,&quot;coupon&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;secondaryCallout&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;initialCost&quot;:0,&quot;subscriptionCost&quot;:0}">
<div class="featured-label-wrapper flex justify-center items-center bg-secondary py-9px px-10px">
<h3>Beta-Hydroxy-Beta-Methylbutyrate (HMB)</h3>
<p>When used along with exercise, beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB) can help increase skeletal muscle growth, strength and power, reports the&nbsp;<em>International Society of Sports Nutrition</em>. It&rsquo;s particularly helpful for people new to exercise, as well as older adults.</p>
<p>&ldquo;HMB is a metabolite of leucine, which means we get it in small amounts through foods that are high in leucine (such as eggs, legumes, oats and seeds),&rdquo; explains Abbie E. Smith-Ryan, Ph.D., an assistant professor in the Department of Exercise and Sport Science at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill and the scientific advisor for Create Wellness, an all-natural creatine monohydrate supplement company. &ldquo;Typical diets usually include 0.5 grams to 1 gram of HMB per day, but the most adequate dose of HMB is 3 grams daily.&rdquo;</p>
<p>Eating more meat products can help increase HMB in the body, although the conversion rate from whole foods to HMB is low. HMB supplements, which are available in both capsule and powder forms, tend to be a more effective delivery system, she adds.</p>
<h3>Essential Amino Acids (EAAs)</h3>
<p>&ldquo;Amino acids are the building blocks of protein,&rdquo; explains Dr. Anastasio. &ldquo;When you eat protein, your body breaks the protein down into the amino acids that compose that protein. These amino acids are then used as the building blocks to repair and grow muscle tissue.&rdquo;</p>
<p>There are 22 amino acids in total, nine of which are considered essential because the body cannot produce them on its own. As a result, essential amino acids (EAAs) must be obtained through food sources&mdash;such as chicken, beef, dairy and eggs&mdash;or supplementation, explains Dr. Smith-Ryan.</p>
<p>The&nbsp;<em>International Society of Sports Nutrition</em>&nbsp;reports that consuming 6 to 12 grams of EAAs before and/or after resistance training can stimulate muscle protein synthesis, although doses of 10 to 12 grams of EAAs may be more effective. EAA supplements are most commonly available in capsule form or as flavored powders to mix with water or other liquids.</p>
<h3>Beta-Alanine</h3>
<p>Beta-alanine is an amino acid that promotes muscle performance by increasing the amount of carnosine, a helpful antioxidant, in the body. Carnosine not only aids in muscle contraction, but also helps delay the onset of muscle fatigue during exercise, ultimately improving exercise capacity and performance during workouts.</p>
<p>&ldquo;Studies suggest that supplementation [of beta-alanine] can increase power output during one-rep max lifting,&rdquo; says Dr. Anastasio. &ldquo;Other studies also show an association between beta-alanine and increased lean muscle composition.&rdquo; While it&rsquo;s not a classic weight gain supplement, beta-alanine can help a person train harder and, in turn, enhance their lean body mass.</p>
<p>Although beta-alanine is a non-essential amino acid (meaning the body can produce it on its own), research suggests supplementing with 4 to 6 grams per day can be beneficial for those looking to enhance their workouts. It&rsquo;s commonly sold in tablet and powder form.</p>
<h2 data-start="922" data-end="962"><strong data-start="925" data-end="962">👍😦<a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html">CLICK HERE TO BUY NOW FROM OFFICIAL WEBSITE</a>😦👍</strong></h2>
<h2 class="section_heading">Top Tips for Successful Muscle Gain</h2>
<div class="section-content wysiwyg-content blue-bullets">
<p>When looking to increase muscle mass and strength, Dr. Smith-Ryan explains that the best results tend to come from a combination of a balanced diet focused around&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;whole foods&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;whole foods&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/nutrition\/best-food-for-muscle-gain\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned="">whole foods</a></span>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;adequate protein intake&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}">adequate protein intake</span>, resistance training and<a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html">&nbsp;<span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;supplementation&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}">supplementation</span>.</a></p>
<p>She also suggests taking a few additional steps to maximize muscle gain and performance:</p>
<ul>
<li><strong>Be consistent</strong>. If you want to gain muscle, you must take consistent actions to support that muscle growth.</li>
<li><strong>Space out your meals</strong>. Meal timing and meal consumption throughout the day is also important. Consume protein evenly throughout the day, as well as before and after exercise.</li>
<li><strong>Be patient</strong>. Gaining muscle takes time; you may not see results right away. Stick with your plan and be patient. Listen to your body. Pushing yourself can be beneficial for growth, but rest is equally important.</li>
<li><span data-ecom-container="{&quot;componentTitle&quot;:&quot;Prioritize sleep&quot;,&quot;componentType&quot;:&quot;Incontent Link&quot;}"><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/07/23/3120444/0/en/Muscle-Building-Supplements-2025-CrazyBulk-Introduces-Effective-Bodybuilding-Supplements-For-Muscle-Growth-Bulking-Cutting-And-Strength-in-USA.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-ecom-link="{&quot;clickText&quot;:&quot;Prioritize sleep&quot;,&quot;clickCat&quot;:&quot;Primary&quot;,&quot;clickUrl&quot;:&quot;https:\/\/www.forbes.com\/health\/wellness\/sleep-deprivation-health-effects\/&quot;,&quot;clickType&quot;:&quot;internal&quot;}" data-ecom-fallback-scanned=""><strong>Prioritize sleep</strong></a></span>. If you&rsquo;re working hard and you dialed in your nutrition but you still aren&rsquo;t gaining muscle, consider your sleep, as it&rsquo;s muscle recovery and growth, too. Aim for eight to 10 hours of quality sleep per night.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</div>
</div>
